TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) Model:

TCP is a set of communication protocols that supports network communication.
The TCP model is subdivided into five layers, each containing specific protocols.
1.) Physical layer:
They tarnslate the message into bits over a medium.
They specify characters as follows:
a.) Topology -> bus,star,hybrid,mesh,ring
b.) Line configuration -> point-point communication, multi-point
c.) Transmission models -> simplex, duplex and half duplex


2.) Data link layer:
They are divided into 2 layers based on type of data

a.) Media Access Control:
It is used for data encapsulation of IP packets from network layers into packets.
Each packet has 2 layers
1.) Header:
It contains the address of source and destination
2.) Trailer:
contains error-checking data at the beginning of the end of ip packets

b.) Logical Link Control:
Flow control: Limits how much data a sender can transfer without overwhelming the receiver.
Error Control: Error in the data transmission can be detected by checking the error detection bits in the trailer of the frame

3.) Network layer:

This later adds a network address / logical address to the data segements to form IP packets.
IP addresses are addresses allocated to a device to uniquely identify it on a global scale.

Common protocols used in network layer
a.) Internet Protocol (IP):
It uses the receiver’s IP address to determine the best path for the proper delivery of packets to the destination.
If the packet is to large, sender Ip address splits into smaller IP address.

b.) Address Resolution Protocol (ARP):
It is used to find the mac address / Physical address from the IP address

c.) ICMP(Internet Control Message Protocol): 
ICMP is responsible for error reporting.

4.) Transport layer:
The transport layer is in charge of flow control (controlling the rate at which data is transferred), end-to-end connectivity, and error-free data transmission.

TCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
It requires the formation and termination of connections between devices in order to transmit data.
It breaks the entire message into segments, assigns a sequence number to each segment, then reassembles the segments into the original message at the receiving end based on the sequence numbers.

UDP(User Datagram Protocol):
It does not require the establishment and termination of connections between devices.
It does not support segmentation and lacks error checking and correction which makes it less reliable but more cost-efficient.

5.) Application layer:
This is the uppermost layer, which combines the OSI model's session, presentation, and application layers. Users can interact with the application and access network resources through this layer.

Protocols used in the Application layer:

HTTP(Hypertext Transfer Protocol): Protocol used to access data on the World Wide Web.
DNS(Domain Name System): This protocol translates domain names to IP addresses.
SMTP(Simple Mail Transfer Protocol): This protocol is used to send Email messages.
FTP(File Transfer Protocol): This protocol is used to transfer files between computers.
TELNET(Telecommunication Network): It is a two-way communication protocol connecting a local machine to a remote machine.


